* title: Thinking monadically
* presenter: Lance Gatlin
* length: 45 minutes
* Email: lance.gatlin@gmail.com
* Twitter: https://twitter.com/Lance_Gatlin
* Meetup: http://www.meetup.com/atlanta-scala/members/14091376/
* Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16Km2CX1kQKLEVBNuEJm9-aRVAQCdOu_I7AlbKbuUlas

When I first started with Scala four years ago, I had no experience in functional programming. At that time, I was just learning how to use immutable data, immutable collections, functional idioms and basic for-comprehensions. All of this made perfect sense to me. But multi-line for-comprehensions using a Scala "monad" (or scalaz.Monad) baffled me. I remember thinking "why would anyone want to code this way?". My frustration at the time lead me to read monad tutorial after monad tutorial and still I just didn't get it. After a few months of this, I realized I did understand the literal mechanics of monads and map/flatMap, but I still didn't get how that connected to reading or writing "monadic" code. Today, after severals years of Scala, I can happily say I've finally wrapped my head around all of that. And I love coding monadically now. The productivity, readability and conciseness of monadic workflows brings me a level of satifisaction with my code that I've yet to find using any other method.
This presentation is my attempt to share those insights with you so that you too can start to read and write monadic code workflows easily. Starting with a simple non-technical definition of monads, this presentation breaks down the for-comprehension "code shape" of monads in an intuitive and easy to understand way. This intuitive code-shape is then connected to the underlying monad boilerplate with an explanation of the design of a custom monad. Finally, monadic workflows and examples of common monads are covered.